Add Support for Indexers and Ranges (#605)
dotnet/csharpstandard: standard/expressions.md

***Lifted operators*** permit predefined and user-defined operators that operate on non-nullable value types to also be used with nullable forms of those types. Lifted operators are constructed from predefined and user-defined operators that meet certain requirements, as described in the following:

> - For the unary operators `+`, `++`, `-`, `--`, `!`, `~`, and `^`, a lifted form of an operator exists if the operand and result types are both non-nullable value types. The lifted form is constructed by adding a single `?` modifier to the operand and result types. The lifted operator produces a `null` value if the operand is `null`. Otherwise, the lifted operator unwraps the operand, applies the underlying operator, and wraps the result.

Reviewer: The change removed the unconnected “(logical negation)” qualification on `!` which exists to distinguish it from the postfix null-forgiving operator and should be restored.

```suggestion
- For the unary operators `+`, `++`, `-`, `--`, `!`(logical negation), `~`, and `^`, a lifted form of an operator exists if the operand and result types are both non-nullable value types. The lifted form is constructed by adding a single `?` modifier to the operand and result types. The lifted operator produces a `null` value if the operand is `null`. Otherwise, the lifted operator unwraps the operand, applies the underlying operator, and wraps the result.
```

#### 12.8.12.2 Array access

> For an array access, the *primary_no_array_creation_expression* of the *element_access* shall be a value of an *array_type*. Furthermore, the *argument_list* of an array access shall not contain named arguments. The number of expressions in the *argument_list* shall be the same as the rank of the *array_type*, and each expression shall be of type `int`, `uint`, `long`, `ulong`, `System.Index`, or `System.Range`, or shall be implicitly convertible to one or more of the types `int`, `uint`, `long`, or `ulong`. However, it is a compile-time error for an *argument_list* expression of type `System.Index` or `System.Range` to be used for any dimension of a multi-dimensional array.

Reviewer 2: It looks like having an expression that's implicitly convertible to `System.Index` or `System.Range` is fine too - but not for multi-dimensional arrays.

Reviewer: Maybe this is because it’s only doing the conversion for the virtual indexer taking a single argument? See comment a little below – we seem to have competing specs of the behaviour.

Reviewer: Maybe make this positive by restoring the original para and instead adding a second one; and include @jskeet’s implicitly convertible observation?

```suggestion
For an array access, the *primary_no_array_creation_expression* of the *element_access* shall be a value of an *array_type*. Furthermore, the *argument_list* of an array access shall not contain named arguments. The number of expressions in the *argument_list* shall be the same as the rank of the *array_type*, and each expression shall be of type `int`, `uint`, `long`, or `ulong`, or shall be implicitly convertible to one or more of these types.

For single-dimension array access the argument expression can also be of type `System.Index` or `System.Range`, or implicitly convertible to one of these.
```

Reviewer 2: Here's an unexpected example:

```csharp
public struct Int32OrRange
{
    public static implicit operator int(Int32OrRange index) => 0;
    public static implicit operator Range(Int32OrRange index) => new Range(0, 0);
}

string[] array = { };
Int32OrRange x = new();
var result = array[x];
```

That compiles, and uses the conversion to `int`. If you remove the conversion, it still compiles, and uses the conversion to `Range`. I'd have expected the first to compile because neither `int` nor `Range` is better than the other.

See ([§12.8.17.3](expressions.md#128173-object-initializers) for a constraint on using `System.Index` in the context of an *initializer_target*.

The result of evaluating an array access that does not involve `System.Range` is a variable of the element type of the array, namely the array element selected by the value(s) of the expression(s) in the *argument_list*.

The result of evaluating an array access that involves `System.Range` is a slice (§indexable-sequence-general) of the array being accessed, as selected by the value(s) of the expression(s) in the *argument_list*. The resulting slice’s element type is the same as the element type of the array being accessed.

The run-time processing of an array access of the form `P[A]`, where `P` is a *primary_no_array_creation_expression* of an *array_type* and `A` is an *argument_list*, consists of the following steps:

- `P` is evaluated. If this evaluation causes an exception, no further steps are executed.

> - The index expressions of the *argument_list* are evaluated in order, from left to right. Following evaluation of each index expression, for expressions not having type `System.Index` or `System.Range`, an implicit conversion ([§10.2](conversions.md#102-implicit-conversions)) to one of the following types is performed: `int`, `uint`, `long`, `ulong`. The first type in this list for which an implicit conversion exists is chosen. For instance, if the index expression is of type `short` then an implicit conversion to `int` is performed, since implicit conversions from `short` to `int` and from `short` to `long` are possible. For an index expression having type `System.Index`, the Index is transformed into the corresponding `int` index using `System.Index.GetOffset`, which calculates the offset from the start of the collection using the specified collection length.

Reviewer 2: Again, we need to take into account indexer arguments which aren't Index/Range but are convertible to them.

> - The index expressions of the *argument_list* are evaluated in order, from left to right. Following evaluation of each index expression, for expressions not having type `System.Index` or `System.Range`, an implicit conversion ([§10.2](conversions.md#102-implicit-conversions)) to one of the following types is performed: `int`, `uint`, `long`, `ulong`. The first type in this list for which an implicit conversion exists is chosen. For instance, if the index expression is of type `short` then an implicit conversion to `int` is performed, since implicit conversions from `short` to `int` and from `short` to `long` are possible. For an index expression having type `System.Index`, the Index is transformed into the corresponding `int` index using `System.Index.GetOffset`, which calculates the offset from the start of the collection using the specified collection length.

Reviewer: How does this mesh with the “behave as if” behaviour specified in the new clause *Implicit Index support* (classes.md, line 5594)?

This version at least mentions `GetOffset`, but surely we only need to specify this stuff on one of the places?

> - The index expressions of the *argument_list* are evaluated in order, from left to right. Following evaluation of each index expression, for expressions not having type `System.Index` or `System.Range`, an implicit conversion ([§10.2](conversions.md#102-implicit-conversions)) to one of the following types is performed: `int`, `uint`, `long`, `ulong`. The first type in this list for which an implicit conversion exists is chosen. For instance, if the index expression is of type `short` then an implicit conversion to `int` is performed, since implicit conversions from `short` to `int` and from `short` to `long` are possible. For an index expression having type `System.Index`, the Index is transformed into the corresponding `int` index using `System.Index.GetOffset`, which calculates the offset from the start of the collection using the specified collection length.

Reviewer: How does this mesh with the “behave as if” behaviour specified in the new clause *Implicit Index support* (classes.md, line 5594)?

This version mentions `GetOffset`, but are we requiring that it be called or that an implementation may “behave as if” it is? Elsewhere in the Standard there are passages where behaviour is defined to be the “equivalent of executing the following code” (or words to that effect), would that pattern be better here?

> - The index expressions of the *argument_list* are evaluated in order, from left to right. Following evaluation of each index expression, for expressions not having type `System.Index` or `System.Range`, an implicit conversion ([§10.2](conversions.md#102-implicit-conversions)) to one of the following types is performed: `int`, `uint`, `long`, `ulong`. The first type in this list for which an implicit conversion exists is chosen. For instance, if the index expression is of type `short` then an implicit conversion to `int` is performed, since implicit conversions from `short` to `int` and from `short` to `long` are possible. For an index expression having type `System.Index`, the Index is transformed into the corresponding `int` index using `System.Index.GetOffset`, which calculates the offset from the start of the collection using the specified collection length.

Reviewer: I think the valiant attempt to interweave `Index` and `Range` is currently a bit hard to follow, well at least I've had to keep re-untangling it as I check the semantics. I think separating out integral, `Index` and `Range` cases a bit more would help, I might back it back before the meeting to make a suggestion…

- For an index expression not having type `System.Range`:
  - If evaluation of an index expression, the subsequent implicit conversion, or Index transformation causes an exception, then no further index expressions are evaluated, and no further steps are executed.

>   - The value of `P` is checked to be valid. If the value of `P` is `null`, a `System.NullReferenceException` is thrown and no further steps are executed.

Reviewer: This check on `P` being valid is occurring *after* the conversion of `Index` to `int` which requires `P`…

  - The value of each expression in the *argument_list* is checked against the actual bounds of each dimension of the array instance referenced by `P`. If one or more values are out of range, a `System.IndexOutOfRangeException` is thrown and no further steps are executed.
  - The location of the array element given by the index expression(s) is computed, and this location becomes the result of the array access.

> - Else, for an index expression having type `System.Range`:

Reviewer 2: Nit: I think we use "Otherwise" typically instead of "Else"

#### 12.8.12.2 Array access

For an array access, the *primary_no_array_creation_expression* of the *element_access* shall be a value of an *array_type*. Furthermore, the *argument_list* of an array access shall not contain named arguments. The number of expressions in the *argument_list* shall be the same as the rank of the *array_type*, and each expression shall be of type `int`, `uint`, `long`, or `ulong`, or shall be implicitly convertible to one or more of these types.

> For single-dimension array access the argument expression can also be of type `System.Index` or `System.Range`, or implicitly convertible to one of these.

Reviewer 2: Here's an unexpected example:

```csharp
public struct Int32OrRange
{
    public static implicit operator int(Int32OrRange index) => 0;
    public static implicit operator Range(Int32OrRange index) => new Range(0, 0);
}

string[] array = { };
Int32OrRange x = new();
var result = array[x];
```

That compiles, and uses the conversion to int. If you remove the conversion, it still compiles, and uses the conversion to Range. I'd have expected the first to compile because neither `int` nor `Range` is better than the other.

Reviewer 3: I checked with the compiler team.  The roslyn implementation ranks single argument indexers in the following order:

- int
- uint
- Int64
- UInt64
- Index
- Range

I wouldn't expect that to change, so we'll have to come up with normative rules that match that behavior.

See ([§12.8.17.3](expressions.md#128173-object-initializers) for a constraint on using `System.Index` in the context of an *initializer_target*.

The result of evaluating an array access that does not involve `System.Range` is a variable of the element type of the array, namely the array element selected by the value(s) of the expression(s) in the *argument_list*.

> The result of evaluating an array access that involves `System.Range` is a slice (§indexable-sequence-general) of the array being accessed, as selected by the value(s) of the expression(s) in the *argument_list*. The resulting slice’s element type is the same as the element type of the array being accessed.

Reviewer 4: Can we specify that the returned slice must be an array type?
```suggestion
The result of evaluating an array access that involves `System.Range` is a slice (§indexable-sequence-general) of the array being accessed, as selected by the value(s) of the expression(s) in the *argument_list*. The resulting slice has the same type as the array being accessed, both at compile time and runtime.
```

> The result of evaluating an array access that involves `System.Range` is a slice (§indexable-sequence-general) of the array being accessed, as selected by the value(s) of the expression(s) in the *argument_list*. The resulting slice’s element type is the same as the element type of the array being accessed.

Reviewer 2: We may need to differentiate between compile-time and runtime types here. Does the code below throw an exception?

```csharp
object[] obj = new string[5];
object[] slice = obj[0..5];
slice[0] = new object();
```

Reviewer 2: (Spoiler alert: it throws an exception.)

Reviewer 2: This concurs with Joseph's suggestion, for the removal of any doubt.

Reviewer 3: And this example prints "System.String[]":

```
string[] source = ["one", "two", "three", "four"] ;

object[] basic = source;

var slice = basic[0..2];
Type t = slice.GetType();
Console.WriteLine(t);
```

The result of evaluating an array access that does not involve `System.Range` is a variable of the element type of the array, namely the array element selected by the value(s) of the expression(s) in the *argument_list*.

The result of evaluating an array access that involves `System.Range` is a slice (§indexable-sequence-general) of the array being accessed, as selected by the value(s) of the expression(s) in the *argument_list*. The resulting slice’s element type is the same as the element type of the array being accessed.

The run-time processing of an array access of the form `P[A]`, where `P` is a *primary_no_array_creation_expression* of an *array_type* and `A` is an *argument_list*, consists of the following steps:

- `P` is evaluated. If this evaluation causes an exception, no further steps are executed.

> - The index expressions of the *argument_list* are evaluated in order, from left to right. Following evaluation of each index expression, for expressions not having type `System.Index` or `System.Range`, an implicit conversion ([§10.2](conversions.md#102-implicit-conversions)) to one of the following types is performed: `int`, `uint`, `long`, `ulong`. The first type in this list for which an implicit conversion exists is chosen. For instance, if the index expression is of type `short` then an implicit conversion to `int` is performed, since implicit conversions from `short` to `int` and from `short` to `long` are possible. For an index expression having type `System.Index`, the Index is transformed into the corresponding `int` index using `System.Index.GetOffset`, which calculates the offset from the start of the collection using the specified collection length.

Reviewer 3: I *think* Index should be code fenced, if it's capitalized.  (Alternative: don't capitalize it):

```suggestion
- The index expressions of the *argument_list* are evaluated in order, from left to right. Following evaluation of each index expression, for expressions not having type `System.Index` or `System.Range`, an implicit conversion ([§10.2](conversions.md#102-implicit-conversions)) to one of the following types is performed: `int`, `uint`, `long`, `ulong`. The first type in this list for which an implicit conversion exists is chosen. For instance, if the index expression is of type `short` then an implicit conversion to `int` is performed, since implicit conversions from `short` to `int` and from `short` to `long` are possible. For an index expression having type `System.Index`, the `Index` is transformed into the corresponding `int` index using `System.Index.GetOffset`, which calculates the offset from the start of the collection using the specified collection length.
```

- For an index expression not having type `System.Range`:

>   - If evaluation of an index expression, the subsequent implicit conversion, or Index transformation causes an exception, then no further index expressions are evaluated, and no further steps are executed.

Reviewer 3: Why is "Index" capitalized here?

Reviewer: Maybe both Index here and Range below are meant to be the types `Index` & `Range`?

  - The value of `P` is checked to be valid. If the value of `P` is `null`, a `System.NullReferenceException` is thrown and no further steps are executed.
  - The value of each expression in the *argument_list* is checked against the actual bounds of each dimension of the array instance referenced by `P`. If one or more values are out of range, a `System.IndexOutOfRangeException` is thrown and no further steps are executed.
  - The location of the array element given by the index expression(s) is computed, and this location becomes the result of the array access.
- Else, for an index expression having type `System.Range`:
  - The value of `P` is checked to be valid. If the value of `P` is `null`, a `System.NullReferenceException` is thrown and no further steps are executed.

>   - The Range is transformed into the corresponding slice using `System.Runtime.CompilerServices.RuntimeHelpers.GetSubArray<T>`. If this transformation causes an exception, no further steps are executed.

Reviewer 3: See comment in standard-library.md.  Do we want to make it the standard that `GetSubArray` is how this happens?  One alternative:

```suggestion
  - The Range is transformed into the corresponding slice of the same *array_type* as `P`. If this transformation causes an exception, no further steps are executed.
```

> Index idx = 1;
> Console.WriteLine(words[idx]);      // green
> Console.WriteLine(words[^0]);       // IndexOutOfRangeException
> ```
>
> `words[idx]` is transformed by the implementation to `words[idx.GetOffset(words.Length)]`. Similarly, `words[^0]` is transformed by the implementation to `words[(^0).GetOffset(words.Length)]`, which results in an exception.
>
> Given the following jagged array and Indexes:
>
> <!-- Example: {template:"code-in-main", name:"ArrayAccessWithIndex2", expectedOutput:["17"]} -->
> ```csharp
> int[][] values = new int[][] { new int[] { 10, 9 }, new int[] { 6, 12, 17 }};
> Index idx1 = 1;
> Index idx2 = ^1;
> Console.WriteLine(values[idx1][idx2]);      // 17 (values[1][2])
> ```
>
> `values[idx1][idx2]` is transformed by the implementation to
>
> ```csharp
> values[idx1.GetOffset(values.Length)][idx2.GetOffset(values[idx1].Length)]
> ```
>
> Given the following multidimensional array and Indexes:
>
> <!-- Example: {template:"code-in-main", name:"ArrayAccessWithIndex3", expectedErrors:["CS0029","CS0029"]} -->
> ```csharp
> int[,] values2D = {{10, 5, 7, 1}, {34, 13, 6, 2}};
> Index idx3 = 1; 
> Index idx4 = ^1;

> > Console.WriteLine(values2D[idx3, idx4]);      // won't compile!

Reviewer 3: Should we use more standard like language here?

```suggestion
> Console.WriteLine(values2D[idx3, idx4]);      // compiler error.
```

> ```
>
> as there is no implicit conversion from `System.Index` to `int`, what one might like to express simply as `values2D[idx3, idx4]` must instead be written explicitly as
>
> ```csharp
> values2D[idx3.GetOffset(values2D.GetUpperBound(0) + 1), idx4.GetOffset(values2D.GetUpperBound(1) + 1)]
>
> ```
>
> Given the following one-dimensional array:
>
> <!-- Example: {template:"code-in-main", name:"ArrayAccessWithIndex4"} -->
> ```csharp
> string[] seasons = new string[] { "Summer", "Autumn", "Winter", "Spring" };
> string[] names = seasons[0..2]; // slice containing "Summer" and "Autumn"
> ```
>

> > `seasons[0..2]` is transformed by the implementation to
> >
> > <!-- NotAn$Example: {} -->
> > ```csharp
> >  System.Runtime.CompilerServices.RuntimeHelpers.GetSubArray<string>(seasons, 0..2)
> > ```
> >
> > which returns a `string[]` slice.

Reviewer 3: If we decide that `GetSubArray` isn't required by the standard, this could become:

```suggestion
> `seasons[0..2]` is transformed by the implementation return a `string[]` slice that contains 2 elements.
```

>
> Given the following jagged array:
>
> <!-- Example: {template:"code-in-main", name:"ArrayAccessWithIndex5", expectedOutput:["42"]} -->
> ```csharp
> int[][] values = new int[][] { new int[] { 10, 9, 5 },
>    new int[] { 6, 12, 17, 32 }, new int[] { 28, 42 } };
> Console.WriteLine(values[1..3][^1][..2][^1]);      // 42
> ```
>

> > all the Range and Index expressions in `values[1..3][^1][..2][^1]` are transformed by the implementation, resulting in `values[2][1]`, which is 42. *end example*

Reviewer 3: Because this is an example, let's consider writing out each transformation:  `values[1..3]` evaluates to .... Then `result`[^1]` evaluates to `result2` which is .... Then, `result2[..2]` evaluates to `result3` which is .... Finally, `result3[^1]` is 42.

Depending on the context in which it is used, an indexer access causes invocation of either the get accessor or the set accessor of the indexer. If the indexer access is the target of an assignment, the set accessor is invoked to assign a new value ([§12.21.2](expressions.md#12212-simple-assignment)). In all other cases, the get accessor is invoked to obtain the current value ([§12.2.2](expressions.md#1222-values-of-expressions)).

> > *Note*: An implementation is required to provide an instance indexer member with a single parameter of type `Index` for any type that meets the criteria specified in §indexable-sequence-impl-support-for-index. An implementation is required to provide an instance indexer member with a single parameter of type `Range` for any type that meets the criteria specified in §indexable-sequence-impl-support-for-range. *end note*

Reviewer 3: Because this is *required*, should it be normative? Should we state that the compiler must translate those expressions into the equivalent expressions using the integral types?

Reviewer 2: I think this should probably be rewritten anyway, in terms of "behaving as if an instance indexer member is provided".
(Again, this is up for discussion - basically, do we expect that to be in the emitted IL, like a default instance constructor is? I suspect not.)

Reviewer: This *Note* contradicts the clauses it references. With @jskeet as to the need to rewrite (normatively) here. Whether it describes “as if an indexer” exists (as in the referenced clauses), an argument conversion (as if) some call to `GetOffset()` is called (as in the changes currently suggested to array indexing), or as some kind of “target type conversion” (as [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/proposals/csharp-8.0/ranges#adding-index-and-range-support-to-existing-library-types)) is up for discussion. Hopefully we can describe array and non-array indexing behaviour very similarly.

Lifted ([§12.4.8](expressions.md#1248-lifted-operators)) forms of the unlifted predefined bitwise complement operators defined above are also predefined.

> ### §index-from-end-operator Index-from-end operator

Reviewer 3: Somewhere in this section (perhaps in a note), we should state that `^0` represents the end of the sequence, not the last element. `^1` represents the last element. (Yes, I know it's in a comment in the example, but still...)

Reviewer: I think that should be explained where `System.Index` is introduced or here, with x-refs between them.

Lifted ([§12.4.8](expressions.md#1248-lifted-operators)) forms of the unlifted predefined bitwise complement operators defined above are also predefined.

### §index-from-end-operator Index-from-end operator

This operator provides a succinct syntax for denoting the position of an element in an indexable sequence (§indexable-sequence) relative to the end of that sequence.

For an operation of the form `^x`, unary operator overload resolution ([§12.4.4](expressions.md#1244-unary-operator-overload-resolution)) is applied to select a specific operator implementation. The operand is converted to the parameter type of the selected operator, and the type of the result is the return type of the operator. Only one predefined index-from-end operator exists:

> <!-- NotAn$Example: {} -->
```csharp
System.Index operator ^(int fromEnd);
```

> For this operator, an object of (the immutable struct) type `System.Index` is returned that denotes element number `fromEnd` from the end of any indexable sequence. `^n` is shorthand for `new System.Index(n, fromEnd: true)`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this operator, a value of (the immutable struct) type `System.Index` is returned that denotes element number `fromEnd` from the end of any indexable sequence. `^n` is shorthand for `new System.Index(n, fromEnd: true)`.
```

Reviewer 2: (To avoid any suspicion of boxing.)

An awaiter’s implementation of the interface methods `INotifyCompletion.OnCompleted` and `ICriticalNotifyCompletion.UnsafeOnCompleted` should cause the delegate `r` to be invoked at most once. Otherwise, the behavior of the enclosing async function is undefined.

## §range-operator Range operator

This operator provides a succinct syntax for specifying a (possibly empty) element range suitable for use in denoting a slice of an indexable sequence (§indexable-sequence).

```ANTLR
range_expression
    : unary_expression
    | range_expression? '..' range_expression?

>     ;

Reviewer 3: This is triggering the left recursive issue in the grammar. I defer to @Nigel-Ecma for a suggestion on an alternative expression.

Reviewer 3: Also, I don't think this grammar is correct. Would it permit something like `P[0..5..8..^2]`?

Reviewer: Agree, the grammar is wrong, see later comment.

```

For an operation of the form `s .. e`, binary operator overload resolution ([§12.4.5](expressions.md#1245-binary-operator-overload-resolution)) is applied to select a specific operator implementation. The operands are converted to the parameter types of the selected operator, and the type of the result is the return type of the operator. *range_expression* shall have type `System.Index` or a type that can be converted implicitly to that type. Only one predefined range operator exists:

> <!-- NotAn$Example: {} -->
```csharp
System.Range operator ..(System.Index start = 0, System.Index end = ^0);
```

The left and right operands denote, respectively, a start and end Index. For this operator, an object of (the immutable struct) type `System.Range` is returned that contains those Indexes. If the left operand is omitted, an Index of `0` is used. If the right operand is omitted, an Index of `^0` is used. As such,

> - `s .. e` is transformed by the implementation to `new System.Range(s, e)`.
> - `s ..` is transformed by the implementation to `new System.Range(s, ^0)`.
> - `.. e` is transformed by the implementation to `new System.Range(0, e)`.

Reviewer 3: style nit. Let's omit the spaces here:

```suggestion
- `s..e` is transformed by the implementation to `new System.Range(s, e)`.
- `s..` is transformed by the implementation to `new System.Range(s, ^0)`.
- `..e` is transformed by the implementation to `new System.Range(0, e)`.
```

An awaiter’s implementation of the interface methods `INotifyCompletion.OnCompleted` and `ICriticalNotifyCompletion.UnsafeOnCompleted` should cause the delegate `r` to be invoked at most once. Otherwise, the behavior of the enclosing async function is undefined.

## §range-operator Range operator

This operator provides a succinct syntax for specifying a (possibly empty) element range suitable for use in denoting a slice of an indexable sequence (§indexable-sequence).

```ANTLR
range_expression
    : unary_expression

>     | range_expression? '..' range_expression?

Reviewer 2: Is this definitely correct? That suggests `0 .. 4 .. 5` would be valid, because `0` is a valid range expression, and so is `4 .. 5`.

I think I'm missing something here.

Reviewer: I haven’t yet taken a look at the grammar, but yes that looks wrong.

    ;
```

> For an operation of the form `s .. e`, binary operator overload resolution ([§12.4.5](expressions.md#1245-binary-operator-overload-resolution)) is applied to select a specific operator implementation. The operands are converted to the parameter types of the selected operator, and the type of the result is the return type of the operator. *range_expression* shall have type `System.Index` or a type that can be converted implicitly to that type. Only one predefined range operator exists:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For an operation of the form `s .. e`, binary operator overload resolution ([§12.4.5](expressions.md#1245-binary-operator-overload-resolution)) is applied to select a specific operator implementation. The operands are converted to the parameter types of the selected operator, and the type of the result is the return type of the operator. Each of `s` and `e` shall have type `System.Index` or a type that can be converted implicitly to that type. Only one predefined range operator exists:
```

(Or let's clarify in a different way. The fact that `range_expression` uses `range_expression` make this more confusing.)

> <!-- NotAn$Example: {} -->
```csharp
System.Range operator ..(System.Index start = 0, System.Index end = ^0);
```

> The left and right operands denote, respectively, a start and end Index. For this operator, an object of (the immutable struct) type `System.Range` is returned that contains those Indexes. If the left operand is omitted, an Index of `0` is used. If the right operand is omitted, an Index of `^0` is used. As such,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The left and right operands denote, respectively, a start and end Index. For this operator, a value of (the immutable struct) type `System.Range` is returned that contains those Indexes. If the left operand is omitted, an Index of `0` is used. If the right operand is omitted, an Index of `^0` is used. As such,
```

    ;
```

For an operation of the form `s .. e`, binary operator overload resolution ([§12.4.5](expressions.md#1245-binary-operator-overload-resolution)) is applied to select a specific operator implementation. The operands are converted to the parameter types of the selected operator, and the type of the result is the return type of the operator. *range_expression* shall have type `System.Index` or a type that can be converted implicitly to that type. Only one predefined range operator exists:

> <!-- NotAn$Example: {} -->
```csharp
System.Range operator ..(System.Index start = 0, System.Index end = ^0);
```

The left and right operands denote, respectively, a start and end Index. For this operator, an object of (the immutable struct) type `System.Range` is returned that contains those Indexes. If the left operand is omitted, an Index of `0` is used. If the right operand is omitted, an Index of `^0` is used. As such,

- `s .. e` is transformed by the implementation to `new System.Range(s, e)`.
- `s ..` is transformed by the implementation to `new System.Range(s, ^0)`.
- `.. e` is transformed by the implementation to `new System.Range(0, e)`.

> - `..` is transformed by the implementation to `new System.Range(0, ^0)`.

Reviewer: “transformed by the implementation” is wrong here as:
- there is no requirement that the implementation does this transformation (and Roslyn does not always do so); and
- the Standard uses phrasing like “has the same meaning as” or “is equivalent to” (e.g. §12.8.8, §13.9.5)
